hello movie lovers i'm patrick and i'm
back with another thrilling horror movie
called
the silence a team of researchers is
shown exploring a cave 1000 feet beneath
pennsylvania's appalachian trail at the
beginning of the film
the cave seems to be a thousand years
old and its discovery makes the team
members extremely happy
suddenly strange sounds of unknown
creatures are heard from within the cave
huge prehistoric bats then emerge from
the cave and attack the researchers team
during the attack the whole research
team is killed at the hands of the
creatures
after which the creatures fly upwards to
the surface of the earth
ready to wreak havoc we are then
introduced to a deaf girl named ali
who lost her hearing ability in a car
accident three years ago
due to her deafness ally is bullied by
the other kids at her school
as ali walks back to her house from
school a guy called rob tags along with
her
and starts talking to her in sign
language from this brief exchange
between them
we learned that ally and rob are both
into each other and a little romance is
going on between them
after this ali gets inside her house and
greets her family members
her brother jude her mother kelly her
granny lynn
and her father hugh while they're
happily having dinner that night
ali's family hears the news broadcasting
the appearance of the strange preachers
in the united states
these creatures as explained in the news
have started causing death and chaos
worldwide
it's further explained that these
creatures who have started to be known
as vesps
feed on humans and the residents will
have to lock themselves in their homes
and remain as quiet as possible because
noise attracts these alien creatures
glenn their neighbor and hugh's
long-term friend
also comes to their house and they all
start contemplating what to do
ali suggests they leave the city and go
to the countryside
as the city is extremely noisy and
saving themselves could prove to be very
hard for them there
the rest of the family agrees with her
and they start making preparations for
their journey
while preparing to leave lynn gives
kelly her medication and tells her not
to tell anyone about her condition
glenn also brings his guns along with
him on the trip for protection against
the creatures
they then start their cars and set off
for the countryside
ali uses her ipad to facetime rob ali
tells rob he should also leave the city
and follow them
but rob tells her his parents have
decided to stay in the city
they both then talk about the crisis for
a while before making a promise to each
other that they will stay connected
throughout the situation
and end the call later while they've
stopped at the gas station
a man with a gun comes to them and
demands they give him the keys to their
car
as the family stares at him in horror
ready to submit and hand over the keys
to him
glenn shoots the man who falls to the
ground they then continue their journey
moving forward they get stuck in heavy
traffic glenn remarks that they will
never be able to safely make it out of
the city at this space
thus they should go off the road and
take a different route following his
advice
they start on a path through the forest
some deer suddenly come in front of
glenn's car
while he's driving through the forest in
an attempt to prevent the deers from
being run over
glenn swivels his car off the road which
sends his car
rolling down an embankment hugh quickly
gets out of his car to help glenn
whose legs are caught in the overturned
car though hugh tries hard
he finds the door jammed and is not able
to get glenn out of the car
glenn tells you to go on without him
since he has a family to save
hugh initially refuses but when glenn
insists
he agrees to go on without him and
promises to send help for him as soon as
possible
when the family gets inside the car they
notice the vest
have reached the area hotis their dog
starts barking at these strange
creatures
due to this noise their car is attacked
by a swarm of vesps
they try hard to make out to stop
barking but in vain
to distract the vesps glenn starts
shooting bullets from his gun
and this voice attracts the vest to his
car who then attack and kill him
analyzing the situation hugh sees no
other choice but to get otis out of the
car
as ali watches crying and pleading with
them not to
during this event hugh learns that the
creatures are blind and can only react
to sound
unable to use their vehicle due to its
noise the family hikes into the forest
on foot
their ability to communicate through
sign language has increased their
chances of survival
and they decide to only communicate
through low whispers
and signs from that point finding ally
sitting alone on a log
hugh goes to her and apologizes to her
for what he had to do to otis
saying he only did it for his family
through his binoculars
jude spots a cabin near the area and
tells his father
they all then walk towards the house and
find a fence with a lock on it around
the cabin
when they move the fence to open it a
bell starts ringing and they immediately
stop to stop the ringing
after hearing this bell an elderly woman
steps out of the cabin with a gun aimed
at them
telling them to get off her property the
noise of the woman attracts a swarm of
the vesps
who attack and kill her in the house the
family then crawls through a drain
tunnel to get past the fence
in the drain tunnel jude sees a hissing
rattlesnake
its hissing attracts the vesps who
killed the snake and from the other end
a vest starts biting at kelly's leg
making her whale in pain
to distract the vesps hugh activates a
wood chipper that draws the swarm to its
death
after getting inside the cabin the
family starts tending to kelly's wounds
which appears to be really bad ally
contacts rob again and learns that this
condition has gotten worse
rob's parents have died and he is also
in a very bad state
the call abruptly disconnects after this
leaving ally crying
thinking she will never be able to see
him again lynn
who's a nurse tells you that kelly's
infection will spread
if antibiotics are not used to treat her
she tells him she has looked for some
around the house
but has not been able to find any thus
hugh and ali set off to a deserted town
to get medical supplies for kelly
leaving lynn and jude behind to take
care of her a man is seen observing ally
and hugh from a distance
as they make their way to an abandoned
pharmacy after getting the medicine they
need for kelly
hugh and ally come face to face with
some vesps inside the pharmacy
due to which they have to stand
motionless so that no sound is made
ali notices the fire sensor above them
and shows it to her father
hugh then lights him up on fire and
holds it close to the sensor
making its alarm go off in the loud
ringing sound of the alarm
hugh and ali quickly run out the sound
of their footsteps being drowned in the
loud ringing
after they get out of the pharmacy ally
and hugh meet a tongueless man who calls
himself
the reverend he tells them to join his
cult
called the hush aly and hugh politely
refused before making their way back to
the cabin
after returning to the cabin ally tells
her father that the cnn broadcast
reported that the vests have an aversion
to extreme cold
she tells him that the people are
surviving by heading north towards
colder climates
she also mentions areas now known as the
grey which are dead zones cut off from
electricity and outside communication
ali later gets a message from rob and
gets extremely happy to see him still
alive
rob tells ali that he is traveling north
to a sanctuary called
the refuge where numerous other
survivors have also
gone to seek refuge a while later the
tongueless reverend
is seen outside the cabin where the
family is now living
the reverend is standing in the yard
with some other members of his cult
leaving his family inside hugh goes out
to ask the man what he wants
the reverend again tries to persuade
hugh to join his cult
but he again refuses his offer and tells
him to leave his family alone
it's then revealed that the reverend and
the cult are interested in just one
member of their family
ali for procreation purposes hugh gets
angry after learning this and pulls out
a gun
aiming it at him threatening to shoot if
he does not leave immediately
but the reverend knowing very well that
you will not shoot and risk attracting
the creatures
smiles at him mockingly and leaves that
night
during a violent thunderstorm ali
notices something attached to her window
in the dark of the night
and squints at it trying to understand
what it is
outside the door the family finds a
little girl standing out in the storm
and takes her inside the house after
taking her inside and covering her with
a blanket
hugh opens her mouth to find out that
her tongue has been cut off
he starts asking her if the reverend
sent her in but she sits there
static looking at him with a worried
face they realize the girl is wearing a
belt
with numerous cell phones on her waist
which starts ringing immediately after
making loud noise the strange object
outside ali's window
is also revealed to be a cell phone
which starts ringing with numerous other
phones placed all around the cabin by
the cult
vesps are attracted to the cabin due to
this sound and they attack the cabin
from every direction
trying to break in through the glass the
family manages to put on the phones
inside water
thus preventing further ringing but in
this state of pandemonium
the cult members manage to get hold of
ali and start taking her away
ali's granny lin attacks the cult
members from behind
which makes them drop alley ally walks
away from them
while lin who's also lying on the ground
in the midst of three cult members
starts to scream
protracting the vesps would start
feeding on her and the cult members
around her
a fight then starts between the family
members and the rest of the members of
the cult
during this struggle most of the cult
members are killed by the family
and the reverend is also finally killed
by hugh
next the family is seen proceeding to
the north clanned in warm winter clothes
they managed to reach the refuge where
they meet other survivors from all over
the world
ali also reunites with rob there and
they spend the rest of their time there
hunting the vesps with bows and arrows
the message of the ending of the film
was that both the humans and the vesps
have now adapted for their victory
the vesps have to adapt to the cold to
get the remaining humans
and the humans have to adapt to the
silence for protection
the victor will be the one who can adapt
faster